So hey guys, in this particular video
let's understand what is a REST API.
What do you mean by this REST
API, also known as RESTful API.
So let's understand
that what is this?
Okay?
And from now onwards we
are going to be focusing more
on the restful APIs.
So restful APIs means
representational state transfer.
Like this is the full form and there
is no need to remember this.
Even I googled it before this video.
Okay, so what is this?
Is, this is basically
an architectural style.
Now first thing is that this
is an architectural style
and this is nothing related
to the Node js, okay?
I not talking about Express or Node
js, it is in, in general like
whenever you are building a REST
API, whether you are using Java,
whether you're using Rust or
you're using JavaScript, Node,
this, anything.
So this is just a style, okay?
Architecture style for designing
the applications, the backend APIs.
Okay?
Now this, this design, the style has
some, some principles, okay?
So there are some key principles that
we have to follow in order to call
yourself your APIs as a RESTful API.
Okay, so what are those?
Number one, all, all
the communication happens
on the HTTP, right?
All the communication happens
on the HTTP protocol.
That's fine, very simple.
First thing that majorly
comes is the statelessness.
Now what do I mean by statelessness?
There should be absolutely no state
maintained on the server.
That means let's say you have
a server which is running, let's
say Java, maybe Rust, maybe
anything or maybe Node js, right?
If user is sending a request,
you are not allowed to create
some, state some data in the memory.
I mean you want to create some data,
hey, go in the database, right?
You have a database but you
cannot store any user related
information inside the server.
You cannot use your memory
to store, store some, store some
user, related information.
User related info.
If you want to do, do
not do it on the server.
You can use Redis, you can
use postgres, you can use other
databases, key value pairs,
but not in the server.
Why?
Because what happens is in
reality these servers automatically
scale up and down, right?
So they scale up, they scale down.
So if you are storing some kind
of memory, you are storing
some kind of state in the memory,
it can be lost, right?
And if you are storing something
in the memory, you don't want your
servers to be scalable in this way.
That basically violates the principle
of your statelessness, okay?
The principle of your restful API.
So everything should be stateless.
Secondly, this should follow
a client Server architecture, right?
What is a client server
architecture, by the way?
You know, the client server
architecture is basically that
there will be a client which can
be a separate application.
Okay, A client.
It can be a mobile application,
it can be iOS, it can
be Android, it can be a website,
it can be anything.
But the client should be
a separate application.
Okay, so let's say that there
is a client which is a separate
application and your server
is a separate application.
Okay?
It should not be like that your
backend is responsible for ui.
No, that should not be the case.
You should not send like,
you know, HTML data, some
CSS data from the server.
No, you, you should only send data
in some format
like JSON, the front end.
The client application should
be responsible for rendering it
on the ui, how to show it
to the user, all that stuff.
So client server architecture,
keep the client different,
Keep the server different.
Okay, There should be no, like,
there should be no code, coupling.
Okay, it should be, they should
always Talk with the APIs.
So what client can do, it can
make API calls to your
backend and, and get the data.
Okay, then there should
be a uniform interface.
Now what do I mean
by uniform interface?
Basically you should use all
the things like for example,
get post, put delete thing
in a predictable way.
Okay, what do I mean
by predictable way?
This is a very simple thing.
Let's say if you are making a get
request to slash tweets,
what do you think they should do?
They should obviously
return you all the tweets.
Right?
Because this is a predictable,
this is a common sense.
But let's say you are designing it
in a way that when you make
a call on get tweets, you
are actually creating a new tweet.
Okay, this is not
a predictable thing, right?
Creating a new tweet.
This doesn't make any sense.
The common sense is not there.
So there should be a uniform
interface that if you tell
someone, hey, there is a route
that is a get route of slash
tweet, it should be predictable
that, yes, this route is going to
return all the tweets.
So uniform interface, okay?
And it should be cachable.
Okay?
So the responses that you send
from the backend, it
should be cacheable, right?
So servers can mark it as
cacheable, which allows the client
to cache the things.
So this is what basically means
makes your APIs as a restful APIs.
So moving further, we are going
to use these, principles, right?
And in order to make highly
performant, highly available RESTful
APIs which are highly scalable.
Okay, so you can Google,
a lot of more things
about these restful APIs.
In fact, I would suggest you to
Google yourself also restful APIs,
and keep all the principles in mind.
So we are just going to learn restful
APIs, because that, what, like 99%
of the companies use, right?
So we are just going to create APIs,
and for the testing
purposes, because we don't have
any UI or client or any REACT
application, we are going to use
this Thunder client, right?
Because if you have to really
test your application, then
you have to build a UI using
React or something like that.
Anything.
But we have this Thunder client,
which acts as a, ui, which
acts as a client for us so
that we can test our APIs.
Got it, guys?